# Zomato-Market-and-Consumer-Analysis
using R Programming

Dataset URL's:
https://www.kaggle.com/shrutimehta/zomato-restaurants-data/data

This URL's contain the entire data regarding the Zomato, It is an online website which provides restaurant search and discovery service. It provide its customer a platform to evaluate choices for great place to eat  We are curious to study and analyse this huge dataset to understand the buyers' point of view, preferences and their ability to spend. The dataset has total 21 columns and contains the information like, Restaurant ID, Restaurant Name, Country Code, City, Address, Locality, Locality Verbose, Longitude, Latitude, Cuisines, Average Cost for two, Currency, Has Table booking, Has Online delivery, Is delivering now, Switch to order menu, Price range, Aggregate rating, Rating colour, Rating text, Votes. The study will give us the in detail idea about Market and Consumer Analysis – Zomato. It is important to study this Zomato market penetrating into sectors which introducing different [Cuisines, country code, locality longitude latitude, with various currency] Now to study the impact on about the market which the TOP 10 RESTAURANT’S, the average cost of two for the aggregate rating, customer vote, their price range and currency, customer votes and aggregate rating. Before knowing the reason for the choosing this topic, lets know about:- Zomato. It is an online restaurant guide; it is one of the fastest ways to search places to eat. Searching with autonomous reviews and rating where “FoodieBay” it’s the initial name of Zomato started in July 2008 by IIT graduates Mr. Deepinder Goyal (Founder) and Pankaj Chaddah (Co-Founder). Zomato has its headquarters in Delhi. “Info edge” it’s the parent company of Zomato where it was categorised in “mobile applications” and “food and restaurant guide” is its sector.  It was renamed as Zomato in November 2010. It expand to Pune and Bangalore and then to Chennai, Ahmadabad and Hyderabad in 2011. In a very short span of time, Zomato went global and started providing its service in Dubai in September 2012. As the company is going more and more global, it rebranded its logo that so that it could transcend cultures, languages and geographic boundaries. Mission statement of the Zomato states that “Our mission is to ensure nobody has a bad meal”. Vision statement of the Zomato states that “Zomato is used by millions every day to decide where to eat in over 10,000 cities across 23 countries. In a few years, we should be able help point you to a great place to eat no matter what part of the world you're in”. To differentiate themselves from their competitors. Zomato concentrated on adding approx. 18,000 new places to eat from. Along with they also decorated many special features such as pointed to particular dishes or opening times.To be the largest resource in food supply market, Zomato bought urban spoon, a leading restaurant service providing portal for $52 million to enter US, Canada and Australia to leverage local insights and experiences and to expand their business in overseas seeing the future goal and objectives. 

Finally, the reason in choosing this topic is to have a better insight on how the Zomato's service will affect on the customer in different parts of the world. Also, how customer review will help Zomato improve their services. The analysis will help categorizing restaurants, their locations, quality, etc. and will help to understand user requirement and increase customer satisfaction. As an objective we also need to know about the customers likes and dislikes with respect to places and locality to improve the quality of services accordingly.
